---
title: essay
layout: page
---

# My Ikebana Experience

When I started Ikebana, I knew nothing about flower arranging. I have little to no physical art skills, and the amount of understanding I had about flowers is that I can cut up the bottoms and throw them into a vase to make them look fancier than the department store plastic. I was aware of some of the concepts discussed in class, such as Kokoro or Ma, from my experiences with the Japan House Internship, but it was my first time applying them to the art of flower arranging. I also have no arts background, and most of my artistic skills are self-taught, such as photography and drawing. One concept from the class that I connected with before starting the class was the idea of nature worship. My religion has ceremonies to honor rain, the mountains, and harvest festivals. What stood out to me in this class was the concept of bringing flowers back to life or 活花 (Katsu Hana). Watching Gunji Sensei skillfully arrange flowers to look like they are springing straight out of the container was awe-inspiring, and I wanted to learn how to do that through this class. This newfound understanding of flower arrangement has also influenced my origami and photography skills, as I now approach these art forms with a deeper appreciation for structure and balance. 

At first, I struggled to understand how to utilize structural elements like vertical, slanting, and horizontal in my arrangement. My mind would gravitate more towards color than structure. Themes would directly translate into colors, and seeing flowers that were those colors would direct what I wanted the structure to be. Then, I would find other elements like branches or leaves to accentuate that structure. Through the lessons and one-on-one instruction from Gunji Sensei, I better understood how to leverage structure to convey a theme. By focusing on finding the structural elements first, I would no longer struggle to get my flowers to stay upright or flow appropriately with the branches I used. For example, in my second arrangement, I was trying to figure out what to do with the 3D space and whether the elements should move more forward. Most of the arrangement had a vertical structure, so moving things forward would add more dimension. However, some of the branches were also going to the side, which made things look more messy. I could have pruned the Virginia pepperweed more since the vertical shape was ruined by some of the branches arching off to the right. I improved this in my midterm, where I kept things simple and focused on removing things to improve the flow and the structure of the arrangement further. In my final project, I was able to create a harmonious balance between structure and color, showcasing my improved understanding of Ikebana principles. 

Another concept I progressed with was how to use space. In my third arrangement, I had a dominant element on the left side of the bubbles, but there weren't any more elements to balance it out on the left side of the container. I was focusing too hard on having a lot of ma so the viewer could focus on and appreciate the spiral forms more. I definitely could have added another spiral form on the other side to tie the entire arrangement together and make it more cohesive. Another arrangement that I struggled with was my fourth arrangement. The top should be more subdued so the bottom could shine, which made it look less cohesive. Adding the yellow flower at the top helped slowly taper off the shape and give the gradient effect I was aiming for. I improved this in my midterm and vertical arrangement by using Ma to draw attention to the dominant elements. I am continuing to improve on figuring out how and when to utilize Ma.

Finally, I significantly improved my flower-handling skills through this class. Before starting, I had never even held a pair of pruning shears. I learned techniques like cutting leaves to create fantastic shapes, leveraging wire to manipulate the shapes of florals, and using tape and wire to anchor flowers in uniquely shaped containers. I also learned how to use vials to keep flowers fresh in vertical arrangements and decorate them to make them mesh with the arrangement. I got better at selecting fresh flowers and having an eye for what I could cut from a giant branch to blend nicely with the rest of the arrangement. I gravitated towards elements with exciting shapes, and I could identify what needed to be cut off to accentuate that shape. This made me appreciate the artistic beauty of nature even more. Each flower, stem, and leaf became a work of art for me. 

Although this class wasn't technical, many elements are relevant to my life and future career. Culturally, I'm used to more and more mentality with loud weddings or music with many elements going on simultaneously. However, this class encouraged me to think deeply about what I can remove to create a more cohesive picture. Using the framework taught to us in class helped me think through each theme I wanted to portray methodically. I focused on what I could remove from each bunch of flowers or branches to create a shape and how I could leverage Ma to direct the viewer's focus to the theme I wanted to showcase.  Professionally, I want to become a software engineer, so I will keep thinking about how I can improve the structure, flow, and design of what I create while coding. When doing this final project, I followed a similar process to what we did in Ikebana, thinking about what emotions I wanted to evoke in the viewer, what colors, shapes, and structure would do that best, and utilizing those to create a cohesive visual experience for the user. The framework we learned about in class would also be an excellent way to ideate user interfaces for projects. I love to fold origami, and I have been experimenting with making flower arrangements with origami for a while. I want to try making ikebana arrangements with flowers and gifting them to friends on special occasions. Otherwise, I will take my appreciation for the natural world and the mindset of trying to appreciate the natural beauty and seasonality of each moment around me. 
